# Baritone Family

- [Back to tartus](index.md)

The Baritone Crime Family is the most powerful criminal organization in the city of Balrax. From its humble start as a gang of smugglers and thieves, the Baritones have risen to become one of the most influential forces in the megablock. They have a stranglehold on the smuggling trade and own the majority of the gambling halls in the megablock, while most of the fences and thieves in Balrax either work directly for the them or pay tribute in exchange for independence. The Baritones control a vast network of extortion, blackmail, and graft that extends throughout the city, and their influence reaches far beyond the criminal underworld. The early Baritone patriarchs invested wisely over the centuries, and today the Baritones are one of the Sixty, the elite tier of Balrax's aristocracy.

The Baritone Crime Family owns warehouses, taverns, and inns throughout the city, and it has a considerable interest in the shipping trade. A Baritone heir sits on the city council of Balrax. As much as some members of the Balrax Council and the Watch would like to see the Baritones disbanded, the syndicate is unlikely to collapse any time soon.

*Your cadre's primary goal and focus is business continuity. It is your role to anticipate and prevent threats to the company. Normally this involves blackmailing the correct official, preventing a certain shipment from arriving, or taking out a competitor*

## Benefits
With the Baritone Crime Family as your group's patron, you gain the following benefits: 

- **Assignments**. The Baritone Crime Family doesn't pay you, but it might assign you to particular tasks. Sometimes these are tasks someone has hired the syndicate to perform (such as an assassination), in which case the syndicate passes 85 percent of the fee on to your group. Other times, your aim is to enrich the syndicate (such as by pulling off a heist), in which case you have the privilege of keeping 85 percent of what you steal. Other syndicates might take more or less than a 15 percent share, at the DM's discretion.
- **Contraband**. You have access to your syndicate's "business" of dealing with contraband, such as poisons or narcotics. You don't receive a discount on these goods, but you can always find someplace to purchase them.
- **Fences**. Members or associates of your syndicate are skilled at disposing of stolen goods, and you have access to this service as well. Fences are useful for selling not just illicit goods but also expensive items such as works of art and even magic items. In the case of magic items, this allows you to delegate the work of finding a buyer to the fence. The drawback is that you don't get to choose whether to accept the offer you might receive-the fence makes that call for you.
- **Immunity**. As a member of the Baritone Crime Family, you are protected from other members of the clan. No one in your syndicate targets you for their own criminal operations. (Of course, the same is expected of you.) On the other hand, if you have rivals within the clan, they might find other ways to interfere with your activities.
- **Syndicate-Owned Businesses**. The Baritone Crime Family owns several businesses, primarily as fronts for laundering money. When you buy from one of these businesses, you get a 5 percent discount. The DM decides what goods and services are available. 


## Building your cadre

Naturally, a large portion of the Baritone Crime Family's members come from a criminal background. There's no reason characters with other backgrounds can't be part of the syndicate, though. The Baritones recruit ex-soldiers as muscle, trained sages for research, sailors to crew smuggling vessels, and charlatans and urchins for their unique talents. Consider some or all of these roles for characters in your party:

- **Bruiser**. Sometimes subtlety means breaking just one of a snitch's kneecaps. The Bruiser uses force and the threat of force to make sure that the crime syndicate gets what it wants. Strength is a natural prerequisite for the role, but Charisma can also be useful, especially when combined with proficiency in Intimidation to reinforce the danger inherent in the Bruiser's presence. Plenty of Bruisers have a criminal past, but former soldiers are often recruited into this role as well. Fighters and rogues make natural Bruisers.
- **Burglar**. Agile and nimble, the Burglar relies on Dexterity and proficiency in skills such as Acrobatics, Sleight of Hand, and Stealth to get in to a target location, take valuables, and get out without being noticed. Some Burglars specialize in certain types of theft, such as housebreaking or picking pockets. Besides characters with the criminal background, young urchins often find a place in criminal syndicates by filling this role. Rogues are natural Burglars, but anyone else with the right combination of skills and abilities can do the job. 
- **Mastermind**. Somebody has to be the brains of any criminal operation-that's where the Mastermind comes in. A high Intelligence benefits this character, as does proficiency in skills such as Insight and Investigation. Masterminds often come from backgrounds such as acolyte, noble, or sage, that give them a broad range of knowledge to support their schemes. Bards, rogues, and wizards are often drawn to this role.
- **Safecracker**. The "breaking" part of "breaking and entering" is the Safecracker's job. A typical Safecracker might have proficiency with thieves' tools, as well as the Dexterity required to use them expertly. Intelligence can be important for figuring out complicated locks and secret doors. Many Safecrackers also boast a high Strength for those cases where lockpicks fail. Safecrackers often come from criminal backgrounds, but characters with experience using other tools and devices, including guild artisans and even sailors, also fall naturally into this role. Artificer or rogue makes a natural class choice for the Safecracker.
- **Talker**. From con artists to fences, anyone who relies on interpersonal skills and a network of contacts falls into the role of the Talker. Charisma proves useful for this role, along with proficiencies in skills such as Deception, Intimidation, and Persuasion. The charlatan background is perfect for Talkers, but criminals, urchins, and others can fill the role with the right skills. Bards are a natural fit for the job as well. 