Women who are postponing motherhood aren't pursuing something historically available to men that they've been denied. They've confused a career with providing for your family. And as a result, they're not providing and they have no family.

My wife and I were in the car we ended up talking. She remarked that now she's expecting she'd feel much more concerned about her career or income if she wasn't comfortable in the fact that I'm making it my job to provide for her and babs. I hadn't realized until now that's what I'm doing. I'm not pursuing a career, or status, or advancement. My goal is steady employment, a paid mortgage, time with my family, and food on the table.

Choosing not to allocate more to crypto, or spend money and time on a venture, or working 70 hours a week; its all in line with this. I'm not focusing on my career, I'm focusing on providing for my family. I'm now realizing that this has been the default for eons. Middle-class suburban dads weren't all gunning to be the CEO or quitting their jobs to join a start-up, they were staying employed. Advancement due to seniority was a byproduct of them caring for their families in a disciplined fashion. The archetype of the scientist or lawyer who works long hours for their important job is the stereotype of a bad and absent father, not the desired outcome.

What women, and many men, are doing is the pursuit of career and status. They want titles and prestige before they settle down. Because they want those things and don't want to miss out on them for the sake of children. Although most don't perceive a contradiction between the two.

To make it plain: providing is working to ensure that your dependents don't starve, a career is rank, income, and power. When women decry the pay gap or put off kids to pursue a career, they aren't perceiving the thing that 99% of men had. They aren't going after something they've been denied but men got. Women aren't getting PhDs or MBAs to put food on the table, they're doing it for self image. Men have never believed that you could be Ford, Musk, or Pope and have a normal life. It always came at the cost of your family. They believed that if they worked really hard at a job they didn't like then their wife wouldn't be forced into a job and their kids wouldn't starve.